hi
everyone sharon prosser here uh and just
by way of a little introduction um i
have over 20 years of experience in the
business
through experiences at oracle
amazon web services and i joined zendesk
almost two years ago and as caitlin
mentioned i
run the worldwide smb segment
for the company and really excited to be
here to
talk about how we've taken a a balanced
but
assertive approach at growing our
business
thanks sharon and i'm asta malik and
i've been working again in sales and
marketing for the last
22 years as well and i think i can
safely say that at this point in time
i've covered all asset classes and
various segments
across different companies that i work
with i joined the rocket ship zendesk
post ipo which is kind of like odd to
say a post-ipo company and call it a
rocket ship but we've seen
so much growth tremendous growth over
the last few years so
i joined about four years ago as the
global vp of product marketing and
platform marketing
and i now run the go to market strategy
and planning team globally
so really excited to be here and look
forward to having an interactive
conversation with all of you and hope
that you can send us questions
as we are presenting
so maybe we'll start with a little bit
of introduction about zendesk
we are a service for crm company and you
know we build support sales and customer
engagement software
we're helping companies build better
better customer relationships
and i think there are a lot of numbers
here but i'm going to go through some of
the key
numbers that tell you a little bit about
the scale at which we're operating at
we have about over 4000 employees at
this point in time headquartered in san
francisco but obviously we have global
offices
um we also have over 165 000 customers
worldwide which means that at some point
in time
you've interacted with us software
whether that's through chat phone or
email
when you reach out to different
companies so we've had again
an incredible journey um and just beyond
the numbers as well it's been very
unique i think you know one of
one we are one of the few companies that
has had a strong presence
and considerable share across different
segments so you know many of you might
know this already but we started as a
darling of the unicorns the smb and
mid-market companies
but many of them grew into enterprise
companies and then there was a shift in
the market a trend towards better
customer experience
that forced enterprises to think
differently as well and created a ton of
opportunity for us um so today
actually we have over 40 percent of our
revenue coming through
enterprise and we just hit the one
billion dollar
goal in our revenue which is again a
very important and incredible milestone
for our company but it hasn't just been
because of some happy accidents uh we
put in deliberate efforts strategies
across various segments um and i'm going
to hand it over to sharon
who's probably going to talk a little
bit about what that has meant
specifically for
smb yeah and um
but before we dive into those details
uh you know i'll say across
you know the audience here i would
imagine that you know all of us are
are looking at our organizations and
we're interested in
understanding where we can flex up up
market
down market or or into entirely
new markets and um not at the cost of
of what you're doing today uh and unless
that's a very calculated and intentional
move and you know there have been some
really exciting times at zendesk
um as i joined the company uh
we have had just entered into the sfa
market
uh through the acquisition of
future simple uh we had launched our
development platform called sunshine
and we had acquired smooch to advance
our messaging capability
um and so while all of that was
happening
um you know there there was still a very
concerted
interest in continuing to focus on smb
which as asta mentioned um was really
where we
we grew up and um
so my job was to you know continue to
uh make sure we were taking advantage of
all these other new levers that were
brought into the business
uh but also continue to grow smb
from from my perspective and i've run
smb organizations uh for for quite a bit
of of my time
and it's it's a
unique market segment in that it's it's
got a wide spectrum of customers
and it's one that zendesk cares deeply
about
uh because of the just the variety of
use cases that come up the different
types of customers that stem from smb
and a lot of them don't stay in smb
a lot of them are on really fast growth
trajectories and
we want to be part of that journey if
you think of the likes of a mailchimp
in fact they were mentioned yesterday in
a roundtable session
uh because of their profitability um and
and were complimented uh for that
uh we'd like to think that we were you
know some
small part of their success
you know having zendesk in place to be
the medium between
their customers and support um now
clearly they've graduated beyond
smb but those are the types of of
opportunities and um you know we all
want to be a part of ourselves but
you know as zendesk we want to make sure
we're we're tailoring our approach so
that we're
appealing to those types of fast-growing
customers
so as we as we uh as i you know got my
mission statement to
you know make sure that you know we
continue to have great success with smb
um it really came down to uh you know i
would say a pretty
simple model um
and you know i refer to it as sort of
finding the x factors
um and and this is you know a set of
uh areas within the segment that that
we looked at really carefully and um
and and again it's it's breaking each of
these down
uh and making sure that we're
capitalizing and evolving um
in order to find that x factor of growth
um you know target market you know
uh you know setting up geographically is
one approach do we
also want to tailor our segmentation
around industry
startups so there are other types of
customer cohorts that we need to think
about
and make sure we're lining up around
you know do we have all the customer use
cases identified
and are we bringing the right messaging
um
to each of those whether it be you know
b2c b2b or bde
from a zendesk perspective um product
positioning
you know do we have the right assembly
of of products that we're bringing
that will help solve a customer's
solution
if i drop into deal motion um
we you know we had a really good
transactional engine
in smb but could we also think about
those
higher potential customers and is there
a more complex
sort of you know engagement that we want
to bring to the table
um for those customers that are maybe
more technically
you know demanding given their use case
and or
uh they they they're on this fast growth
trajectory
um and so these are the kinds of uh
ways in which we really started to break
down
our strategy within smb
and given this the success that we
were having up market what what really
started to fuel the innovation
and the evolution of smb was the success
that we were having in the enterprise
realm
and if you think of um landing a
lighthouse account
in in the enterprise realm we very
quickly
looked at those wins and said you know
what other companies are within that
supply chain of that company
or within that that ecosystem that you
know maybe are still
small and looking at ways to grow and
can we be
a part of that growth strategy as they
serve their customers
um looking at the use cases and
and you know if we were having success
across the the larger account space
um with a use case that we hadn't quite
delved into an smb could we could we
learn from that and is there approach to
take that use case and
you know bring it into smb so that it's
right sized and suitable for
the smaller company deal motion was
another area where we really
felt like again really strong
transactional engine
but could we bring a different deal
motion
to some of the smb customers that had
the appetite
and it was a matter of looking at some
of the assets that were being built
for the larger account teams
such as account plans and you know
account management
influence maps and things like that can
we bring those
back into the smb realm
and and have success
programs was another area where
again we were putting together
custom programs for the enterprise
customer but but we have really
important customers in smb as well and
so can we take some of those vip
programs and
higher touch programs and bring those
into smb and
and really start to um apply those
uh to get customers you know closer to
zendesk and
and you know to to increase the adoption
of our
of our software and it was the
um back and forth and the sharing of
of information that really helped to
fuel
uh the the growth and the continued
growth in smb
uh the other approach that has really
lent itself to again
focusing on all these other levers that
are important to zendesk but also
you know really helping to um
make sure each one on their own was
having a lot of success
there was an org model design that um
has really helped to enable this and
support it
and um what i'm sharing here on the
screen
is is really just the areas where we've
we've
you know chosen to specialize um which
of course across sales and and go to
market we need
sales reps and and sales managers you
know waking up every day thinking about
the segment that they're focused on
um and what how what the drum beat looks
like for that particular segment
same with pre-sales again for smb
uh we need we need a pre-sales
organization that can
move really quickly um we think that
there are a lot of repeatable
motions that that a pre-sales
you know individual needs to be really
good at illustrating through a demo
um so we we believe specializing in
solution consulting
makes a lot of sense for us in terms of
of our success teams again
within smb we need to think about
doing a lot of things at scale a lot of
one-to-many
sorts of programs so having that
specialized
to the segment has has made a
a big difference for us um at zendesk
and then field marketing again having
folks who
look at each of the regional markets and
think about
you know how can they build smb
community how can they
stand up listening posts so that we're
really sort of
hearing from our customers and helping
them hear from one another
and then there's a whole set of
centralized resources that
uh you know each of them you know uh
have a bird's eye view of the
organization
and it's really that centralized team
that's
you know on the lookout for the the
opportunity to cross-pollinate
and and share resources and approaches
and programs and techniques and
the the list goes on and on um but
having this supporting org model
to enable the sharing
of of success across the segments has
has really helped to
to fuel the smb growth so
um i think there there have been some
key learnings and
um and so why don't we touch on some of
those
thanks sharon um you know that was a
great overview of some of the things
that we've implemented from a strategic
perspective for
the smb segment but i think for the
overall growth of our company
uh we knew that we obviously had to
cater to all the other segments we
wanted to play in including mid market
and enterprise
and of course another thing that was
clear was that was not going to come
through
just efficiency right we couldn't just
rely on that but we had to diversify our
revenue streams
um in various forms right as i talked
about before
like what did that look like from a
segment perspective what did that look
like from a use case perspective and
even
a product portfolio perspective and the
investments we had to make
so there was definitely some
re-engineering required
across product go to market and people
uh motions
but the good news was that we didn't
really have to pivot 180 degree as we
were making some of these
uh big bold ambitions part of like in
our ongoing strategy
i think you know the one thing that
worked in our favor was that we didn't
really have any barriers to entry in any
segment right
um we obviously play in the customer
experience space it applies to every
segment every company
so what we really had to do was refine
our emotions think about where we wanted
to play
and where we wanted to exit so that's
sort of like you know summary of the key
learnings i'm going to go through
individually here i think the first
thing was um we learned that we needed a
clear narrative for growth and you know
that too with measurable outcomes
i remember back in 2016 our visionary
ceo
mikkel made this hairy audacious goal of
hitting a billion dollar
in revenue in 2020 um with a lot of spec
you know skeptics even within the
company and some outside
um but what that really did um other
than the fact that we actually
accomplished it this year
um is gave the organization a purpose
right it helped us put together again a
long-term strategy in place
that could then translate into an annual
focus so you know the whole
idea of having a billion dollar in
revenue
started making us think in terms of like
you know the key investments we'd have
to make
on a yearly basis um in different areas
to get us there
so you know i think what we did was like
we started thinking about where the
annual focus would be right so certain
years would be the year of like focusing
on a segment
or the year of like you know making
acquisitions to expand into
um adjacent markets or you know just
investments
uh in specific functions within the
organization that we started thinking
about maturing
our execution overall the other thing is
around
organizing and galvanizing this was
again a key learning i think
when you have the ambition to get
sizable share
in different segments you really can't
have the same people and the same teams
focusing on everything um it will end up
diluting the purpose so you know
you'll see this in many companies where
you have the same sales teams focus on
different segments
the focus then becomes more around
hitting the overall goal and number so
it's like
you know not about how you make it but
you know the fact that you need to make
the numbers so
we wanted to be very deliberate about
making sure that you know we didn't have
those competing
priorities in place and when we had the
billion dollar ambition in mind
we were really thinking about the
execution in terms of different segments
and not just hitting that goal
one way or the other and it's a hard
thing to do it's a hard thing to do when
you're resource constrained
it's a hard thing to do when they're
again like you know competing priorities
but we started again thinking about in
terms of like we don't have to
execute on all those changes upfront or
in one go but we started taking again
like you know the approach of this is
the year of doing x
and the next year we're going to be
focusing on why so um
i think that really helped not only just
you know just deliver that clear
narrative to the organization but
galvanize our troops
in the right direction in a very focused
way so
that helped um and i think uh you know
investing in people sharon touched upon
this uh
in her previous slide a little bit too i
think we wanted to kind of
make sure that we were doing almost
taking a bifurcated approach here one
was
you know obviously as we were thinking
about specialization
going into different markets owning you
know a big part or
chunk of these markets as we went along
uh we wanted to bring in specialization
there was no doubt right again
if you're gonna start um you know
building out the teams
with a specific focus and charter you
need people with that kind of
experience at times with that kind of
background sharon came into the org
with a ton of smb experience and that's
exactly what we did
but on the other hand we also knew that
you know we had to preserve the
institutional knowledge with the folks
that we already had in the organization
so
how do we give them uh the right
opportunities how do we invest in them
and you know investment in terms of not
only just rewarding them for the
performance but rewarding people for
agility because
again you know we are all about
long-term strategy we're all about
annual strategy
but we work in a very very fast-moving
fast-paced environment which requires
you to be very flexible so i think
almost like you know the dna of people
that we had from
the beginning you know from our
grassroots and being a startup you know
that agility that grit
we wanted to preserve that and we wanted
to give people those opportunities that
could again like you know
become almost like a long-term advantage
um for zendesk
so that was um that was the other thing
we did and then you know just defining
our strengths and honorable territory
this was important for us
uh from a variety of different
perspectives because i think
when you start looking at the different
segments each segment can present a very
vast opportunity right enterprise is a
big space
so is smb and so is mid-market so you
know when we say that we have ambition
and playing in all of these markets and
we want to have like a decent share in
these markets
we have to be very specific about what
our ownable territory really look like
um you know what we really did well and
you know how do we actually define that
and carve that out so we did that with
different approaches
whether that's based on like you know
again the size of the companies that we
wanted to target within each of those
segments
um specific verticals that we knew that
we played well in and then
almost trying to look at the look-alikes
um of like you know our ideal profiles
that we had created
with the learnings over the years so you
know we we wanted to make sure that you
know we weren't just you know giving
blind guidance around
um go and like you know make your number
or you know
show x percent growth in x you know xyz
segment
but more prescriptive in terms of giving
that guidance and
don't get me wrong like you know there
were pivots along the way sometimes as
we were thinking
about how these pockets of customers um
were reacting responding to our message
so um you know and the solutions that we
were providing
so again going going back to investing
in people you need people who can pivot
quickly who can be flexible who can work
in
sometimes even ambiguous environments
where you're just sort of like you know
making
uh hopefully a safe bet but you know
with with the assumption that things are
going to change
um if they don't play out the way that
you expect them to so
i think that was that was a very
important thing to do to really carve
out the specific pockets
and then think about where to scale and
where to exit
um depending on the performance that you
were seeing and then i think
um you know establishing some guiding
principles
um zendesk is again you know we entered
a market
the crm space which you know many could
call that had
very big incumbents already and you know
strong players so
you know it really stood out um
because of the the beliefs that we have
from the get-go
one was around you know being a
beautifully simple solution
for our customers i mean there were
other choices in the market that
um were really complex um people you
know wanted more
simplicity for their agents they wanted
more simplicity
for their customers and you know just
start competing on customer experience
rather than sort of like you know
checking the box that you have a team
and a software that can deliver
um you know the basics so you know that
simplicity
um that point of view around you know
really providing
great time to value helping customers be
successful
in a shorter period of time along with
being a very
different uh company from a transparency
perspective
um you know just you know talking about
our prices very openly talking about our
products our
limitations and the way we do business
very openly i think
those things really made a difference in
our ability to execute and win the
market
so we wanted to make sure that even as
we scaled as we went into
these other segments we wanted to keep
those guiding principles it was almost
like this joke that
you know we might not be for everyone
right this is zendesk and we do
these things really well and this is why
our customers love us but
you know we're not going to compromise
on some of these core values and
if there was a compromise expected then
maybe we're not the company
for that business um and then last but
not least flexibility and execution i
briefly talked about it before i think
this is
so important in companies that are
scaling and growing and i think most of
you already know this but it's a hard
thing
um to you know again uh get your teams
around because
if you have you know ambitions you've
been talking about a specific goal
people can quickly get attached to
um the things that they're working on um
you know they can have pride and
ownership with certain things so
you want to like you know set these
expectations up front with the team that
focus on the north star focus on the
long-term strategy
but be really flexible in execution in
how we actually get there right keep an
open mind and i think the flexibility
and execution if you continue to remind
your organization that it's not the
flexibility because a bunch
of folks within the team or the senior
leadership wants you to be flexible it's
the
flexibility um for the benefit of the
customer how do we serve them better and
how do we ultimately achieve our goal
i think that mindset of customer first
can really help you know again execute
on this flexibility that is much needed
as company scale and so did we
so you know keeping up with the four c's
and and these are
um you know each one is
is really important customers culture
you know changing trends and competition
and if i
you know austin you know just mentioned
keeping
you know the customer at the center of
of all that we do and
you know we um we are fortunate that we
have a lot of customers
and we want to be seen as a
partner as they invest in
ways to to support their their customer
base
and it's important as we think about
you know customer feedback and you know
do we have the right listening posts out
across you know the various um
you know uh touch points so that we can
uh
listen and learn um from customers and
and that
again based on a lot of the key
learnings that
that austis shared can we uh you know be
flexible can we be agile and moving to
some of the um
requirements that they're sharing with
us so
everything we do has the customers you
know at the center
of those decisions um uh
they're you know the lifeblood to our
organization
the second point is around culture and
um
i think that the the key word here is
collaboration
and um making sure that there's um
there's uh you know a lot of um
motivation and an incentive to share
across um you know departments and org
boundaries
we have a a word that describes our
culture
um it's it's humblent and it's
uh humble and confident smashed
together and it it really does
um set the stage for for who we are as a
company and
you know uh and and how we
expect you to show up every day um that
you're humble but you're confident
um and then you know put put that at the
cornerstone and then have a
you know a lot of encouragement around
collaboration and
um you've got a good recipe for success
there and we've certainly realized
that yeah and i think
the other two c's that you got to keep
up with as one is changing trends and i
feel like if uh
talking of like changing trends and
uncertainty i think 2020 is the year
that defines it
um so we we had to keep again a lot of
flexibility in our execution
um and you know we had to be comfortable
with the fact that we might not always
have the best answers
but again going back to the guiding
principles for us it was almost like
when in doubt
go back to what we do best right it
should tell you
where to focus even if something has hit
you which is absolutely new and you
don't really know how to
um how to handle that situation and you
know cover definitely was one of them
so again going back to simplicity
serving our customers
um best and time to value these were the
things that
we really wanted to focus on and
standardize on almost
you know as we learned how the market
shifted but other than that i think you
know obviously when you think about the
changing trends
um we made programmatic investments in a
lot of things voice of customer
community being the other one and i
think the key part there is that a lot
of companies have these initiatives in
place
right and they're great long-term um in
terms of like you know just building out
champions and building that trust with
your community and um your customers
but at the same time like you know i i
feel like it's
many a times one way so we you know
we've seen in voice of customer programs
where
you've taken the feedback from the
customers but you never got back to them
so you never told them like you know
when um when that would align with the
customer
or you know the company strategy if that
would actually be addressed or not
and i think you know we started being
deliberate um over time and again some
of these things like i said are
short-term inefficient but long-term
efficient um
and some learnings come along the way
but we wanted to make sure that
we had gold around it not only just on
capturing the information
but we what we actually do with the
information you know do we actually make
it a part of the product strategy
and if you're not one way or the other
um in both scenarios
keeping our customers informed because
you know they took the time to tell you
um and help you inform that strategy and
then last but not least
it's a competition um i think again uh
you know when you think about
competition uh
you don't always have to follow the
competition um that's what we believe
but
it's good to be a little bit maybe a
little bit of healthy paranoia is good
it's good to keep tabs on what uh your
competitors are doing but ultimately
um as a company we chose to
you know uh to focus on our core
principles and what our customers
were asking and the customer trends were
going instead of following what the
competition was doing so
you know we've never really entertained
any cheap tactics marketing gimmicks or
anything like that
when it comes to competition but we do
um
have a competitive team and obviously
you know many companies
have investment in those kind of teams
but the purpose of that team
is mostly around making sure that we're
understanding
how the customers are responding to some
of the innovation in the market
where do we need to focus where do we
need to play how does it actually
influence
our own strategy um and you know the
other thing i'd say about competition is
like uh
you know one of the better ways to beat
competition is to actually go to war
for talent so um you know going back to
investing in people
is like making sure that you have a team
at the end of the day that's going to
help you execute better than others
all right so i you know just from a
conclusion standpoint it's
it's uh it's remembering what you know
what
what you do best um and again as as
we've
emphasized through this discussion it's
it's you know we knew that being
beautifully simple
and offering that you know through our
our software
to our customers uh was incredibly
important
and and that you know smb
you know was and is you know a strong
growth engine for the company and it's
you know not
letting go of that strategy um while
still
you know going out and pursuing other
other initiatives
um and then as as asta had had mentioned
it's
you know investing big in people they
they are the game changers and in all of
this and um
making sure that you're you know hiring
top talent
and and talent that also fits the
culture yeah and i think again
um just you've heard us talk about some
of these things already so we're not
gonna
spend a lot of time but i wanted to talk
about the first bullet a little bit i
read this book some time back
uh which was about you know what got you
here will not get you there it was about
professional and personal development i
do have to say that
that is not what we did at zendesk uh we
wanted to preserve
the good things and uh you know our core
principles that got us here
and um i think you know that along with
obviously
you know the evolution that we had to
make um but we wanted to make sure that
you know the changes or the evolution
and the pivots that we're making were
tied to actually
customer trends and our ambition of like
diversifying in different segments so
that was definitely one of our key
learnings and i think i
talked enough about people and going to
war for talent and preserving
institutional knowledge that has been
definitely a focus of the organization
um and probably again one of the biggest
differentiators for us
um and you know specialization and
focused execution and customer always
first these are things that you hear a
lot many times
but i really believe that if you don't
have okrs or goals and measurable
outcomes tied to these things they can
quickly become
backburner items so um and again you
know
again it's a part of our journey too i'm
not saying we had like okrs on in place
from day one
it's definitely been a learning for us
as
you know we've decided to be more
deliberate as we've decided to focus on
specific segments
um but you know those measurable
outcomes is what will drive your team
will give them a purpose
and frankly will keep you on your toes
in terms of what's working
and help you again uh make changes along
the way as you go
you